---
title: "Optimal Multi-Valued Validated Asynchronous Byzantine Agreement Revisited"
collection: ACM PODC 2020
permalink: /publication/2020-04-04-vaba
excerpt: ''
date: 2020-08-03
venue: 'ACM PODC'

citation: 'Yuan Lu, Zhenliang Lu, Qiang Tang, Guiling Wang. &quot;Optimal Multi-Valued Validated Asynchronous Byzantine Agreement Revisited.&quot; <i>Proc. ACM PODC 2020</i>.'
---
Multi-valued validated asynchronous Byzantine agreement (VABA\mathsf{VABA}VABA), proposed in the seminal work of Cachin et al. (CRYPTO'01), is fundamental for critical fault-tolerant services such as atomic broadcast in the asynchronous network. It was left as an open problem to reduce the O(ℓn2+λn2+n3)\mathcal{O}(\ell n^2+\lambda n^2+n^3)O(ℓn2+λn2+n3) communication asymptotically (where nnn is the number of parties, ℓ\ellℓ is the input size, λ\lambdaλ is the security parameter). In a recent breakthrough, Abraham et al. (PODC'19) removed the n3n^3n3 term to partially answer the question when the input size is small. However, in many other use cases, e.g., the application from Cachin et al. to atomic broadcast, the input size ℓ≥λn\ell \geq \lambda nℓ≥λn, thus the total communication is dominated by the O(ℓn2)\mathcal{O}(\ell n^2)O(ℓn2) term, and the problem raised by Cachin et al. remains open. We fill the gap and answer the remaining part of the open problem. In particular, we design and analyze two VABA\mathsf{VABA}VABA protocols with O(ℓn+λn2)\mathcal{O}(\ell n+\lambda n^2)O(ℓn+λn2) communication, which is optimal when ℓ≥λn\ell\geq\lambda nℓ≥λn. We also maintain all other benefits including optimal resilience to tolerate up to n/3n/3n/3 Byzantine corruptions, optimal expected constant running time, and optimal O(n2)\mathcal{O}(n^2)O(n2) message complexity. At the core of our design, we propose asynchronous provable dispersal broadcast (APDB\mathsf{APDB}APDB) so that an input value can be split and dispersed to each party and later recovered. Compared to a related notion of asynchronous verifiable information dispersal, an important feature of APDB\mathsf{APDB}APDB is weakening the {\em agreement} to enable a more efficient construction while still ensuring the dispersed value can be consistently recovered later. Using the new method, we design and analyze an optimal VABA\mathsf{VABA}VABA protocol. We also present a general self-bootstrap technique to reduce the communication of any existing VABA\mathsf{VABA}VABA (for large input). After applying our APDB\mathsf{APDB}APDB protocol, the self-bootstrap framework uses small inputs to invoke VABA\mathsf{VABA}VABA to pick the dispersed value to recast, and thus improves the underlying VABA\mathsf{VABA}VABA.
